NMS-13016: Add docs for non-privilged ports and non-root ping (#3490)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/deployment/pages/core/centos-rhel/initialize-core.adoc

sudo /opt/opennms/bin/install -dis
----

.Identify the OpenNMS group id and allow ICMP (ping)
[source, console]
----
id -g opennms
# 1000 <1>

> sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ping_group_range=1000 1000 >> /etc/sysctl.d/99-opennms.conf <2>

Reviewer: since there's a space, the range needs to be quoted:

`sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ping_group_range="1000 1000"`

Reviewer: Also I don't know if you care to make a note that the debian/rpm packages will do this for you automatically

Author: > Also I don't know if you care to make a note that the debian/rpm packages will do this for you automatically

That would be awesome!

Reviewer: It already does, that's why I said.  :D

(Still worth leaving it in for manual installs...)

sudo systemctl reload firewalld
----

> NOTE: The core service user requires to send ICMP echo requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: The core service user must be able to send ICMP echo requests.
```

>       During the setup the permissions for `net.ipv4.ping_group_range` are set permanently on boot in `/etc/sysctl.d/99-opennms-non-root-icmp.conf` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      During setup, the permissions for `net.ipv4.ping_group_range` are set permanently on boot in `/etc/sysctl.d/99-opennms-non-root-icmp.conf`. 
```

----

TIP: To receive SNMP Traps or Syslog messages you must allow incoming traffic on your host firewall as well.
     By default, the OpenNMS {page-component-title} SNMP trap daemon listens on 1162/udp and the Syslog daemon listens on 10514/udp.
     The SNMP Trap daemon is enabled by default, the OpenNMS Syslog daemon is disabled.

TIP: If you want keep OpenNMS {page-component-title} running as an unprivileged user and want using the default Syslog or SNMP Trap ports (514/udp, 162/udp) you can use local port forwarding.

.Enable Masquerade to allow port-forwarding
[source, console]
----
sudo firewall-cmd --add-masquerade
----

.Forward default Syslog UDP port 514 to 10514
[source, console]
----
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=514/udp
sudo firewall-cmd --add-forward-port=port=514:proto=udp:toport=10514:toaddr=127.0.0.1
sudo systemctl reload firewalld
----

> .Forward default SNMP Trap UDP port 162 to 1162

Reviewer: 10162  :)

[source, console]
----
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=162/udp

> sudo firewall-cmd --add-forward-port=port=162:proto=udp:toport=1162:toaddr=127.0.0.1

Reviewer: same: 10162
